---
Toc: True
Layout: post
description: NOTES AND HACKS
Title: Unit 5 Blog
categories: [3]
---

# Assignment Questions

Question 1. Think of three beneficial effects of your projects based on 5.1 Unit

- One beneficial effect of my project might be the ability to keep your trips organized. Sometimes things like this can be stressful but by using technology the trip can go smoothly. Another benefit is the planning. Finding fun things to with family or with friends can be hard but technology and my project will help with providing good options especially given the likes, dislikes, and budget of the consumer. Lastly, the review feature will benefit users by giving them different ideas about this location that will impact whether they decide to visit this activity or landmark. Without these technological features the trip would be unorganized and not very well thoughtout.

Question 2. Think of a potential harmful effect of your project.

- One potential harmful effect of my project is the reliance on the website. For example, if the whole trip onluy depends on the website and no other tangible source, there may be issues. For example, if the wifi cuts out sometume during the trip or there is a connection issue, the user won't have access to their plans and it might ruin their whole trip. It also could cause phone attatchemnet issues that will ruin the trip.

Question 3. Answer with an opinion and learnings so far this year:  What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?

- One pro on internet blockers at router is stopping acess to distracting websites. Many high schoolers and students in general can relate to getting distracted especially with computers, but these blocks can help keep everyone in check. It is also a con because you never kniw the situation and if it is really necessary in a scenario. The lack of admin password can be a pro if the studetn really needs to use it, but it can be a con if students use it for innapropriate uses.

Question 4. What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.

- One concern I have about the digital divide is how communication is limited for certain people. Everyone should be able to effectively communicate with others and their loved ones, but they are limited due to the digital divide. Furthermore, the digital divide can have a negative effect on people who are less informed about situations. They won't have the "common knowledge" to feel on the same level.

# Blog Questions

## 5.1 - Beneficial and Harmful Effects

Question 1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing.

- Three of my own beneficial effects of computing include: growing your productivity, retaining you linked to the world, and connecting you to the internet. Although there are advisable results to computing there are hazardous consequences to computing. Computing can enlarge your productivity, however, it is additionally convenient to be distracted with the aid of something else on your computer. One can be distracted with the aid of messages, games, and social media apps on their computer. Overall, leading to a decrease in one’s productiveness and porosity levels. Computing can maintain you connected to the world, however, being linked to the world comes up with problems like experiencing human traffickers and hackers online. Computing can hold you connected to the internet, however the web has quite a few negative aspects and harms such as addictions, spam, hacks, and viruses.

Question 2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?

- An impact on my success in high school is the AP publications I take and the things to do and extracurriculars I do backyard of school. I am regularly occupied with something which is a blessing and curse due to the fact being free with nothing to do puts me in my thoughts. However, having so a good deal to do is terrible for my intellectual health and contributes to my stress levels. I by and large simply struggle with having so a whole lot on my plate and juggling all my responsibilties. In order to be less pressured I take time to myself each day and priotize going on a stroll or going on a run to relax my physique and mind. Setting time aside each day for myself has signifcantly helped and helps me get my thinking off anything. It is universal sincerely useful to step outdoor into the nature and helps me rejuvenate.

## 5.2 - Digital Divide

Question 1. How does someone empower themself in a digital world?

- Empowering themselves in a digital world means no longer relying on technology. They can have interaction and empower themselves through going backyard into nature and finding an acuity they enjoy. In order to be less connected to technology, one can additionally set limits and make use of the Apple screen time feature. This way they will have an notion of how long they spend their time searching at a screen. This would substantially assist one because it would limit the quantity of blue light publicity to their eyes ordinary improving and better their lifestyles and mood. One can additionally use facets such as night shift on their digital units or even regulate the display screen brightness on their phone. So, it does now not affect their retina too much.

Question 2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.

- Empowerement can assist anyone that is not empowered through encouraging them to decrease and modify their screen brightness on their digital devices. Additionally, telling anybody the modifications they have seen in their existence after reducing brightness and screen time can help persuade them to also consider reducing blue lights from screens. Something that I could do at Del Norte High School is reminding students to limit their display screen time and screen brightness. I would inform them to spend time doing matters they love that do no longer contain the use of or searching at a screen. Also, I think enforcing things on paper can additionally probably help college students due to the fact it reduces the amount of bluelight they are exposed to by spending time on their telephones for social media or doing homework.

Question 3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?

- I think red tape is blockading digital empowerment because the government is constantly making an attempt to protect us from hazardous or violent things. The authorities protecting us is nice, however, I assume it is additionally top for human beings to have access to things due to the fact the government hiding positive stuff it nearly creates a feeling of risk for some. Since it seems like something is being hidden from you, and you will never determine out what it is. Maybe there are such boundaries at Del Norte High School too due to the fact as a pupil you know statistics about a certain area. However, there is so a whole lot data college students do not recognize because the college does no longer release or announce a lot of information.

## 5.3 - Computing Bias

Summary/thoughts/opinions:

- In this section we talked about how the internet and different algorithms may have a bias. For example, social media will choose different programs to show you based on what you show you like and how you interact with the algorithm. Facebook and tiktok are different in the sense where facebook is biased towards older people while tik tok caters to younger children and people who enjoy more modern technology. Features like Alexa and Siri are primarily and defaulted to a womens voice because women are seen as more the secretary type and may be seen as the more attractive voice. We also watched a video about the cameras that wouldn't face ttrack the people with darker skin. In class, we discussed whether this feature was intentional or not

## 5.4 - Crowdsourcing

Question 1. Think of a use case for crowdsourcing in you project … CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?

- A crowdsource idea and how I might initiate it in our terrain is grounded on Night at the Museum. At Night at the Museum, we can set up a truck system at the entrance where each parent, pupil, or individual receives a truck ticket when they walk in order to insure each person gets a truck ticket. This way we will be suitable to reach a larger and different followership, which is perfect because this way we can reduce computer bias.

Question 2. What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?

- Del Norte High School crowdsourcing can be salutary because the academy has thousands of scholars which would help to do the crowdsourcing procedure. We can gain the information we need from the Del Norte High School scholars and use that information towards our design. Yes, my design could be better with crowdsourcing because getting people’s input and opinion about how they search for activiites to do and places to go to in San Diego county. Hearing their precious inputs can help ameliorate my design and helps me ameliorate the stoner’s experience on my website.

Question 3. What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.

- Data I can capture at Night at the Museum is how people search for conditioning to do and places to go to in San Diego County and also using it as a marketing fashion can extensively help. Showing people our website and guiding them around the website and the features they website has can help us gain the opinions of druggies. This way through stoner input we can ameliorate the website and change it to better it since that's our thing and purpose to keep track of what milestones and conditioning druggies like and keeps and organizes stoner’s progress in one place.

## 5.5 - Legal and Ethical Concerns

Question 1. When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.

- There are many kinds of license types, some we discussed today include: Apache License 2.0, GNU General Public License v3.0, MIT License, BSD 2-Clause “Simplified” License, BSD 3-Clause “New” or “Revised” License, Boost Software License 1.0, Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal, Eclipse Public License 2.0, GNU Affero General Public License v3.0, GNU General Public License v2.0, GNU Lesser General Public License v2.1, Mozilla Public License 2.0, and The Unlicense. Licenses are very important in terms of making sue information is safe and credible, stopping issues of copying or plagarism.

Question 2. In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.

- The discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical that we discussed in class today are how having licenses prevents us from getting hacks and data breaches. Licenses like GitHub licenses encrypt keep our information safe. Also, this is why Google has two factor authentication to ensure that it is the actual person logging in and accessing their information and accounts.

Question 3. Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.

- This is our group license: https://github.com/amitha-sanka/janl/blob/45c80427ccb4bff7b9782b455ab7856a35d8bf54/LICENSE.md
- This is my personal license: https://github.com/linaawad1/lina.github.io/blob/master/_posts/2023-02-11-personallicense.md
- We made the choice of this license because we knew it would protect our information and our consumers. One of the specifics is that it will be free for our users. We have the copyright values and we have the legal permission to copy, distribute, etc. of the program. Since its free there will be dangers but this license will protect those security isues.

## 5.6 - Safe Computing

Question 1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.

- PII stands for Personal Identifiable Information. I have seen PII in computer science principles in areas wbere personal informatino is asked of the user. I have seen on a project in AP CompSci Principles is GitHub. Each student’s GitHub account appears when they search their name and their GitHub account shows their projects and repositories. Since we use other programs and softwares in APCSP like Postman, AWS, or Slack, these softwares use PII measures such as encryption, secure storage, access controls, and data minimization in order to keep information safe.

Question 2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?

- My perosonal feelings about PII are mixed. I like it in terms of it pulling up my LinkedIn when someone searches my name, however, I do not like it in terms of it pulling up personal information like my address, passwords, or phone numbers. For others, I think it is also a problem to them because of their social media. They would not want their social media accounts to appear along with their professional work since it would degrade their professional view.

Question 3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.

- A good password is one that is strong and secure, making it difficult for unauthorized individuals to guess or crack. Strong passwords usually are lengthier, complex, and unique. Whereas, weak passwords include one’s personal information, small amount of characters, and simple.

Question 4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.

- Symmetric encryption uses a single secret key to both encrypt and decrypt data. The same key is used for both encryption and decryption and it is used to scramble the data into an unreadable form, and the receiver uses the same key to unscramble the data and access the original message. Asymmetric encryption uses a public key to encrypt the data, while the private key is used to decrypt the data. The public key can be freely shared with anyone, but the private key must be kept secret. When someone wants to send an encrypted message to the owner of the public key, they use the public key to encrypt the data.

Question 5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.

-O ne example of encryption used in AWS deployment is the encryption of data stored in Amazon S3, which is a scalable and durable object storage service. In Amazon S3, one can enable server-side encryption for objects by specifying an encryption algorithm and is done using Amazon S3-Managed Encryption Keys (SSE-S3) or AWS Key Management Service (SSE-KMS) encryption. With SSE-KMS, specifying a customer master key stored in AWS Key Management Service to encrypt the data, there is more security and encryption.

Question 6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.

- A phishing scheme I have learned about the hard way are fake login pages that looks like the login page of a website. The user puts in their information thinking it is the actual website asking for login credentials. However, a hacker behind the scenes is taking record of the credentials and is using it in the wrong ways. Some phishing techniques include gathering information about the one through social media and public records and using this information to their advantage. Another phishing technique includes creating a fake email or message that appears to be from someone they know. While the person on the other side is prompted to take action or provide personal information.