---
Toc: True
Layout: post
description: NOTES AND HACKS
Title: 5.1 and 5.2 Blog
categories: [3]
---

# Assignment Questions

1. Think of three beneficial effects of your projects based on 5.1 Unit

- One beneficial effect of my project might be the ability to keep your trips organized. Sometimes things like this can be stressful but by using technology the trip can go smoothly. Another benefit is the planning. Finding fun things to with family or with friends can be hard but technology and my project will help with providing good options especially given the likes, dislikes, and budget of the consumer. Lastly, the review feature will benefit users by giving them different ideas about this location that will impact whether they decide to visit this activity or landmark. Without these technological features the trip would be unorganized and not very well thoughtout.

2. Think of a potential harmful effect of your project.

- One potential harmful effect of my project is the reliance on the website. For example, if the whole trip onluy depends on the website and no other tangible source, there may be issues. For example, if the wifi cuts out sometume during the trip or there is a connection issue, the user won't have access to their plans and it might ruin their whole trip. It also could cause phone attatchemnet issues that will ruin the trip.

3. Answer with an opinion and learnings so far this year:  What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?

- One pro on internet blockers at router is stopping acess to distracting websites. Many high schoolers and students in general can relate to getting distracted especially with computers, but these blocks can help keep everyone in check. It is also a con because you never kniw the situation and if it is really necessary in a scenario. The lack of admin password can be a pro if the studetn really needs to use it, but it can be a con if students use it for innapropriate uses.

4. What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.

- One concern I have about the digital divide is how communication is limited for certain people. Everyone should be able to effectively communicate with others and their loved ones, but they are limited due to the digital divide. Furthermore, the digital divide can have a negative effect on people who are less informed about situations. They won't have the "common knowledge" to feel on the same level.

# Blog Questions

## 5.1

1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing.

- Three of my own beneficial effects of computing include: growing your productivity, retaining you linked to the world, and connecting you to the internet. Although there are advisable results to computing there are hazardous consequences to computing. Computing can enlarge your productivity, however, it is additionally convenient to be distracted with the aid of something else on your computer. One can be distracted with the aid of messages, games, and social media apps on their computer. Overall, leading to a decrease in one’s productiveness and porosity levels. Computing can maintain you connected to the world, however, being linked to the world comes up with problems like experiencing human traffickers and hackers online. Computing can hold you connected to the internet, however the web has quite a few negative aspects and harms such as addictions, spam, hacks, and viruses.

2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?

- An impact on my success in high school is the AP publications I take and the things to do and extracurriculars I do backyard of school. I am regularly occupied with something which is a blessing and curse due to the fact being free with nothing to do puts me in my thoughts. However, having so a good deal to do is terrible for my intellectual health and contributes to my stress levels. I by and large simply struggle with having so a whole lot on my plate and juggling all my responsibilties. In order to be less pressured I take time to myself each day and priotize going on a stroll or going on a run to relax my physique and mind. Setting time aside each day for myself has signifcantly helped and helps me get my thinking off anything. It is universal sincerely useful to step outdoor into the nature and helps me rejuvenate.

## 5.2

1. How does someone empower themself in a digital world?

- Empowering themselves in a digital world means no longer relying on technology. They can have interaction and empower themselves through going backyard into nature and finding an acuity they enjoy. In order to be less connected to technology, one can additionally set limits and make use of the Apple screen time feature. This way they will have an notion of how long they spend their time searching at a screen. This would substantially assist one because it would limit the quantity of blue light publicity to their eyes ordinary improving and better their lifestyles and mood. One can additionally use facets such as night shift on their digital units or even regulate the display screen brightness on their phone. So, it does now not affect their retina too much.

2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.

- Empowerement can assist anyone that is not empowered through encouraging them to decrease and modify their screen brightness on their digital devices. Additionally, telling anybody the modifications they have seen in their existence after reducing brightness and screen time can help persuade them to also consider reducing blue lights from screens. Something that I could do at Del Norte High School is reminding students to limit their display screen time and screen brightness. I would inform them to spend time doing matters they love that do no longer contain the use of or searching at a screen. Also, I think enforcing things on paper can additionally probably help college students due to the fact it reduces the amount of bluelight they are exposed to by spending time on their telephones for social media or doing homework.

3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?

- I think red tape is blockading digital empowerment because the government is constantly making an attempt to protect us from hazardous or violent things. The authorities protecting us is nice, however, I assume it is additionally top for human beings to have access to things due to the fact the government hiding positive stuff it nearly creates a feeling of risk for some. Since it seems like something is being hidden from you, and you will never determine out what it is. Maybe there are such boundaries at Del Norte High School too due to the fact as a pupil you know statistics about a certain area. However, there is so a whole lot data college students do not recognize because the college does no longer release or announce a lot of information.
